Hello, everyone.
So today we're gonna start
out with networking,
which can mean a lot of things but here,
I mean this word in terms of what
are clients, and what are servers, and
what does TCP look like, and what kinds
of protocols do we typically deal with?
So that will be the first part.
So there are a lot of ideas that people
might have about what is a server and
what is a client in terms of
what that physically might
manifest as like a server.
I think people usually think of a big
rack mounted thing with blinky lights and
stuff.
But really, any networked computer can
be a server just like any networked
computer can be a client.
These are more roles that
computers play in how we use them.
So, Usually,
this kind of stuff runs based on little
pieces of data, little chunks of data,
which is also an important idea for
later when we get into streams.
And these packets are kind of
chopped up into little pieces and
sent over the network.
So you might get them
out of order as well.
So there's all kinds of different ways,
different little sequence numbers that get
attached to the packets as
they fly over the wire.
With TCP you get acknowledgments,
so for every packet you sent you
get an ACK back from the other side
that says, yes, I received this.
But with UDP you don't.
We're mostly gonna be playing around
with TCP because it's usually easier
to think about if you send something,
it's gonna arrive in order and
you know whether you get it back or not.
You have a question?
>> So you just use UDP cuz it's faster
then or why would you ever use it?
>> You would use UDP if,
for example, a good use for
it is something like a streaming audio or
streaming video where you don't wanna
resend things that didn't go through okay.
You just want it to send
the latest version always.
That would be a good example.
Actually for streaming audio and
video, those are mostly done these
days with TCP but I think a lot of
games still use UDP for reasons.
But the much more common
one is TCP these days.
Yeah, everything else is TCP.
[LAUGH]